# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`role`](#role): Main role class
* [`role::appeng`](#role--appeng): Class for managing the Appeng role
* [`role::auth`](#role--auth): Class for managing the Auth role
* [`role::basic`](#role--basic): Class Basic will include Monitoring , Repo Management, and  System Update
* [`role::communication`](#role--communication): Class for managing the Communication role
* [`role::computing`](#role--computing): Class for managing the Computing role
* [`role::custom`](#role--custom): Custom server; Fully managed by puppet - but only uses features that are combineable for all servers (ie. part of common class).
* [`role::customers`](#role--customers): Class for managing the Customer role
* [`role::db`](#role--db): Class for managing the DB role
* [`role::mail`](#role--mail): Class for managing the Mail role
* [`role::monitor`](#role--monitor): Monitoring role
* [`role::monitoring`](#role--monitoring): Class for managing the Monitoring role
* [`role::ntpd`](#role--ntpd): Class for managing the NTPD server role
* [`role::package_management`](#role--package_management): Class for managing package management
* [`role::projectmanagement`](#role--projectmanagement): Class for managing the ProjectManagement role
* [`role::storage`](#role--storage): Class for managing the Storage role
* [`role::util`](#role--util): Class for managing the Util role
* [`role::virtualization`](#role--virtualization): Class for managing virtualization role
* [`role::web`](#role--web): Class for managing the Web role
* [`role::webframeworks`](#role--webframeworks): Class for managing the Webframeworks role

## Classes

### <a name="role"></a>`role`

This class includes the profile class.

### <a name="role--appeng"></a>`role::appeng`

Class for managing the Appeng role

### <a name="role--auth"></a>`role::auth`

Class for managing the Auth role

### <a name="role--basic"></a>`role::basic`

Class Basic will include Monitoring , Repo Management, and  System Update

### <a name="role--communication"></a>`role::communication`

Class for managing the Communication role

### <a name="role--computing"></a>`role::computing`

Class for managing the Computing role

### <a name="role--custom"></a>`role::custom`

Custom server; Fully managed by puppet - but only uses features that are combineable for all servers (ie. part of common class).

### <a name="role--customers"></a>`role::customers`

Class for managing the Customer role

### <a name="role--db"></a>`role::db`

Class for managing the DB role

### <a name="role--mail"></a>`role::mail`

Class for managing the Mail role

### <a name="role--monitor"></a>`role::monitor`

Only used for being able to select a role without any extras. Should inherit
from ::role and otherwise be empty.

### <a name="role--monitoring"></a>`role::monitoring`

Class for managing the Monitoring role

### <a name="role--ntpd"></a>`role::ntpd`

Class for managing the NTPD server role

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `role::ntpd` class:

* [`servers`](#-role--ntpd--servers)
* [`burst`](#-role--ntpd--burst)
* [`restrict`](#-role--ntpd--restrict)
* [`tinker`](#-role--ntpd--tinker)
* [`panic`](#-role--ntpd--panic)

##### <a name="-role--ntpd--servers"></a>`servers`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::Host]`

The list of NTPD servers. No default value.

##### <a name="-role--ntpd--burst"></a>`burst`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Whether to enable burst mode. Defaults to false.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-role--ntpd--restrict"></a>`restrict`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String]]`

The list of restrict configurations. Defaults to an empty array.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-role--ntpd--tinker"></a>`tinker`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Whether to enable tinker options. Defaults to false.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-role--ntpd--panic"></a>`panic`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[0]]`

The panic threshold in seconds. Defaults to undef.

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="role--package_management"></a>`role::package_management`

Class for managing package management

### <a name="role--projectmanagement"></a>`role::projectmanagement`

Class for managing the ProjectManagement role

### <a name="role--storage"></a>`role::storage`

Class for managing the Storage role

### <a name="role--util"></a>`role::util`

Class for managing the Util role

### <a name="role--virtualization"></a>`role::virtualization`

Class for managing virtualization role

### <a name="role--web"></a>`role::web`

Class for managing the Web role

### <a name="role--webframeworks"></a>`role::webframeworks`

Class for managing the Webframeworks role

