# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`auditd`](#auditd): Configure the audit daemon for use with a specified audit profile.
* [`auditd::config`](#auditd--config): This class is called from auditd for service config.
* [`auditd::config::audisp`](#auditd--config--audisp): Configures the audit dispatcher primarily for sending audit logs directly to syslog without intervention.
* [`auditd::config::audisp::syslog`](#auditd--config--audisp--syslog): Utilizes rsyslog to send all audit records to syslog.
* [`auditd::config::audisp_service`](#auditd--config--audisp_service): Notify auditd to restart to ensure the process for audisp
is running.
* [`auditd::config::audit_profiles`](#auditd--config--audit_profiles): Provides global audit rule configuration and a base set of audit rules based on the built-in audit profile(s).
* [`auditd::config::audit_profiles::built_in`](#auditd--config--audit_profiles--built_in): An audit profile that allows the use of sample rulesets included with the
audit package to be used to configure a system.
* [`auditd::config::audit_profiles::custom`](#auditd--config--audit_profiles--custom): A set of user specified rules in a form that is easy to manipulate via Hiera
* [`auditd::config::audit_profiles::simp`](#auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp): A set of general purpose audit rules that should meet most security policy requirements
* [`auditd::config::audit_profiles::stig`](#auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig): A set of audit rules that are configured to satisfy DISA STIG compliance checks for EL7.
* [`auditd::config::grub`](#auditd--config--grub): Enables/disables auditing at boot time.
* [`auditd::config::logging`](#auditd--config--logging): Ensures that plugin for syslog is installed so audit events
can be sent to syslog in addition the audit partition.
* [`auditd::install`](#auditd--install): Install the auditd packages
* [`auditd::service`](#auditd--service): Ensure that the auditd service is running

### Defined types

* [`auditd::rule`](#auditd--rule): Add rules to the audit daemon.

### Functions

* [`auditd::calculate_space_left`](#auditd--calculate_space_left): Calculates the correct default value for 'space_left' based on the value of 'admin_space_left'.
* [`auditd::get_array_index`](#auditd--get_array_index): Returns a string that represents the first index of the specified element within the Array.
* [`auditd::validate_init_params`](#auditd--validate_init_params): Validates selected params from the main auditd class.

### Data types

* [`Auditd::AuditProfile`](#Auditd--AuditProfile): Matches the types of auditd profiles allowed
* [`Auditd::DiskErrorAction`](#Auditd--DiskErrorAction): Matches disk error actions in auditd.conf
* [`Auditd::DiskFullAction`](#Auditd--DiskFullAction): Matches actions to take when disk is full (see auditd.conf)
* [`Auditd::Flush`](#Auditd--Flush): Matches actions flush in auditd.conf
* [`Auditd::LogFacility`](#Auditd--LogFacility): Matches log facility that can be used in syslog.conf plugin
* [`Auditd::LogFormat`](#Auditd--LogFormat): Matches log formats that can be used in auditd.conf
* [`Auditd::LogPriority`](#Auditd--LogPriority): Matches log priorities that can be used in syslog.conf plugin
* [`Auditd::MaxLogFileAction`](#Auditd--MaxLogFileAction): Matches available matches for maxlogfileaction in auditd.conf
* [`Auditd::NameFormat`](#Auditd--NameFormat): Matche s available name formats in audotd.conf
* [`Auditd::OverflowAction`](#Auditd--OverflowAction): Matches overflow_action settings in auditd.conf or audisp.conf
* [`Auditd::RootAuditLevel`](#Auditd--RootAuditLevel): Matches root audit level settings in auditd.conf
* [`Auditd::SpaceLeftAction`](#Auditd--SpaceLeftAction): Matches spaceleftaction for auditd.conf

## Classes

### <a name="auditd"></a>`auditd`

Any variable that is not described here can be found in auditd.conf(5) and
auditctl(8).

* **See also**
  * auditd.conf(5)
  * auditctl(8)

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd` class:

* [`enable`](#-auditd--enable)
* [`default_audit_profile`](#-auditd--default_audit_profile)
* [`default_audit_profiles`](#-auditd--default_audit_profiles)
* [`audit_auditd_config`](#-auditd--audit_auditd_config)
* [`lname`](#-auditd--lname)
* [`ignore_anonymous`](#-auditd--ignore_anonymous)
* [`ignore_crond`](#-auditd--ignore_crond)
* [`ignore_time_daemons`](#-auditd--ignore_time_daemons)
* [`ignore_crypto_key_user`](#-auditd--ignore_crypto_key_user)
* [`ignore_errors`](#-auditd--ignore_errors)
* [`ignore_failures`](#-auditd--ignore_failures)
* [`ignore_system_services`](#-auditd--ignore_system_services)
* [`action_mail_acct`](#-auditd--action_mail_acct)
* [`admin_space_left`](#-auditd--admin_space_left)
* [`admin_space_left_action`](#-auditd--admin_space_left_action)
* [`at_boot`](#-auditd--at_boot)
* [`buffer_size`](#-auditd--buffer_size)
* [`backlog_wait_time`](#-auditd--backlog_wait_time)
* [`disk_error_action`](#-auditd--disk_error_action)
* [`disk_full_action`](#-auditd--disk_full_action)
* [`disp_qos`](#-auditd--disp_qos)
* [`dispatcher`](#-auditd--dispatcher)
* [`failure_mode`](#-auditd--failure_mode)
* [`flush`](#-auditd--flush)
* [`freq`](#-auditd--freq)
* [`immutable`](#-auditd--immutable)
* [`log_file`](#-auditd--log_file)
* [`local_events`](#-auditd--local_events)
* [`log_format`](#-auditd--log_format)
* [`log_group`](#-auditd--log_group)
* [`loginuid_immutable`](#-auditd--loginuid_immutable)
* [`max_log_file`](#-auditd--max_log_file)
* [`max_log_file_action`](#-auditd--max_log_file_action)
* [`max_restarts`](#-auditd--max_restarts)
* [`name_format`](#-auditd--name_format)
* [`num_logs`](#-auditd--num_logs)
* [`overflow_action`](#-auditd--overflow_action)
* [`package_name`](#-auditd--package_name)
* [`package_ensure`](#-auditd--package_ensure)
* [`plugin_dir`](#-auditd--plugin_dir)
* [`priority_boost`](#-auditd--priority_boost)
* [`q_depth`](#-auditd--q_depth)
* [`rate`](#-auditd--rate)
* [`root_audit_level`](#-auditd--root_audit_level)
* [`service_name`](#-auditd--service_name)
* [`space_left`](#-auditd--space_left)
* [`space_left_action`](#-auditd--space_left_action)
* [`syslog`](#-auditd--syslog)
* [`target_selinux_types`](#-auditd--target_selinux_types)
* [`uid_min`](#-auditd--uid_min)
* [`verify_email`](#-auditd--verify_email)
* [`write_logs`](#-auditd--write_logs)
* [`purge_auditd_rules`](#-auditd--purge_auditd_rules)

##### <a name="-auditd--enable"></a>`enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, enable auditing.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--default_audit_profile"></a>`default_audit_profile`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[Enum['simp'],Boolean]]`

Deprecated by `$default_audit_profiles`

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--default_audit_profiles"></a>`default_audit_profiles`

Data type: `Array[Auditd::AuditProfile]`

The built-in audit profile(s) to use to provide global audit rule
configuration (error handling, buffer size, etc.) and a base set
of audit rules.
- When more than one profile is specified, the profile rules are
  effectively concatenated in the order the profiles are listed.
- To add rules to the base set, use `auditd::rule`.
- To manage the audit rules, yourself, set this parameter to `[]`.
- @see `auditd::config::audit_profiles` for more details about this
  configuration.

Default value: `[ 'simp' ]`

##### <a name="-auditd--audit_auditd_config"></a>`audit_auditd_config`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set up an audit rule to audit the `auditd` configuration files.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--lname"></a>`lname`

Data type: `String`

An alias for the ``name`` variable in the configuration file. This is used
since ``$name`` is a reserved keyword in Puppet.

Default value: `$facts['networking']['fqdn']`

##### <a name="-auditd--ignore_anonymous"></a>`ignore_anonymous`

Data type: `Boolean`

For built-in audit profiles, whether to drop anonymous and daemon
events, i.e., events for which ``auid`` is '-1' (aka 'unset').
Audit records from these events are prolific but not useful.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--ignore_crond"></a>`ignore_crond`

Data type: `Boolean`

For built-in audit profiles, whether to drop events related to cron
jobs. `cron` creates a lot of audit events that are not usually useful.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--ignore_time_daemons"></a>`ignore_time_daemons`

Data type: `Boolean`

Ignore time modifications by time daemons that are running on the system
since this is valid activity.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--ignore_crypto_key_user"></a>`ignore_crypto_key_user`

Data type: `Boolean`

Ignore CRYPTO_KEY_USER logs since these are generally noise.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--ignore_errors"></a>`ignore_errors`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to set the `auditctl` '-i' option

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--ignore_failures"></a>`ignore_failures`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to set the `auditctl` '-c' option

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--ignore_system_services"></a>`ignore_system_services`

Data type: `Boolean`

For built-in audit profiles, whether to ignore system service events,
i.e., events for which the ``auid`` is set but is less than the
minimum UID for human users on the system.  In most security guides,
this filter is attached to every system call rule.  So, by implementing
the filter in an upfront drop rule, this feature provides optimization
of that filtering.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--action_mail_acct"></a>`action_mail_acct`

Data type: `String[1]`



Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-auditd--admin_space_left"></a>`admin_space_left`

Data type: `Variant[Integer[0],Pattern['^\d+%$']]`



Default value: `50`

##### <a name="-auditd--admin_space_left_action"></a>`admin_space_left_action`

Data type: `Auditd::SpaceLeftAction`



Default value: `'rotate'`

##### <a name="-auditd--at_boot"></a>`at_boot`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, modify the Grub settings to enable auditing at boot time.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--buffer_size"></a>`buffer_size`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Value of the `auditctl` '-b' option

Default value: `16384`

##### <a name="-auditd--backlog_wait_time"></a>`backlog_wait_time`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1,600000]]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--disk_error_action"></a>`disk_error_action`

Data type: `Auditd::DiskErrorAction`



Default value: `'syslog'`

##### <a name="-auditd--disk_full_action"></a>`disk_full_action`

Data type: `Auditd::DiskFullAction`



Default value: `'rotate'`

##### <a name="-auditd--disp_qos"></a>`disp_qos`

Data type: `Enum['lossy','lossless']`

`auditd` version 2 only

Default value: `'lossy'`

##### <a name="-auditd--dispatcher"></a>`dispatcher`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

`auditd` version 2 only

Default value: `'/sbin/audispd'`

##### <a name="-auditd--failure_mode"></a>`failure_mode`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Value of the `auditctl` '-f' option

Default value: `1`

##### <a name="-auditd--flush"></a>`flush`

Data type: `Auditd::Flush`



Default value: `'incremental'`

##### <a name="-auditd--freq"></a>`freq`

Data type: `Integer[0]`



Default value: `20`

##### <a name="-auditd--immutable"></a>`immutable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether or not to make the configuration immutable when using built-in
audit profiles.  Be aware that, should you choose to make the
configuration immutable, you will not be able to change your audit
rules without a reboot.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--log_file"></a>`log_file`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`



Default value: `'/var/log/audit/audit.log'`

##### <a name="-auditd--local_events"></a>`local_events`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

`auditd` version 3 only

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--log_format"></a>`log_format`

Data type: `Auditd::LogFormat`

The output log format

* 'NOLOG' is deprecated as of auditd 2.5.2
* 'ENRICHED' is only available in auditd >= 2.6.0

Default value: `'raw'`

##### <a name="-auditd--log_group"></a>`log_group`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-auditd--loginuid_immutable"></a>`loginuid_immutable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets the --loginuid-immutable option

* This has been noted to potentially cause issues with some types of
  containers but a concrete explanation of what types has not yet been
  found.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--max_log_file"></a>`max_log_file`

Data type: `Integer[0]`



Default value: `24`

##### <a name="-auditd--max_log_file_action"></a>`max_log_file_action`

Data type: `Auditd::MaxLogFileAction`



Default value: `'rotate'`

##### <a name="-auditd--max_restarts"></a>`max_restarts`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`

sets the number of times a plugin will be restart.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--name_format"></a>`name_format`

Data type: `Auditd::NameFormat`



Default value: `'user'`

##### <a name="-auditd--num_logs"></a>`num_logs`

Data type: `Integer[0]`



Default value: `5`

##### <a name="-auditd--overflow_action"></a>`overflow_action`

Data type: `Optional[Auditd::Overflowaction]`

sets the overflow action.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the auditd package.

Default value: `'audit'`

##### <a name="-auditd--package_ensure"></a>`package_ensure`

Data type: `Simplib::PackageEnsure`



Default value: `simplib::lookup('simp_options::package_ensure', { 'default_value' => 'installed' })`

##### <a name="-auditd--plugin_dir"></a>`plugin_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

sets the directory for the plugin configuration files.

##### <a name="-auditd--priority_boost"></a>`priority_boost`

Data type: `Integer[0]`



Default value: `3`

##### <a name="-auditd--q_depth"></a>`q_depth`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

how big to make the internal queue of the audit event dispatcher

Default value: `400`

##### <a name="-auditd--rate"></a>`rate`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Value of the `auditctl` '-r' option

Default value: `0`

##### <a name="-auditd--root_audit_level"></a>`root_audit_level`

Data type: `Auditd::RootAuditLevel`

What level of auditing should be used for su-root activity in built-in
audit profiles that provide su-root rules. Be aware that setting this to
anything besides 'basic' may overwhelm your system and/or log server.
Options can be, 'basic', 'aggressive', 'insane'.  For the 'simp' audit
profile, these options are as follows:
 - Basic: Safe syscall rules, should not follow program execution outside
   of the base app
 - Aggressive: Adds syscall rules for execve, rmdir and variants of rename
   and unlink
 - Insane: Adds syscall rules for write, creat and variants of chown,
   fork, link and mkdir

Default value: `'basic'`

##### <a name="-auditd--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the auditd service.

Default value: `'auditd'`

##### <a name="-auditd--space_left"></a>`space_left`

Data type: `Variant[Integer[0],Pattern['^\d+%$']]`

Must be larger than `$admin_space_left`.

* If `$admin_space_left` is an `Integer`, will be set to `30 + $admin_space_left`
* If `$admin_space_left` is a percentage (auditd >= 2.8.5), will be set to `1% + $admin_space_left`

Default value: `auditd::calculate_space_left($admin_space_left)`

##### <a name="-auditd--space_left_action"></a>`space_left_action`

Data type: `Auditd::SpaceLeftAction`



Default value: `'syslog'`

##### <a name="-auditd--syslog"></a>`syslog`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, manage the settings for the syslog plugin
It was left defaulted to  simp_options::syslog value for backwards
compatability.
This does not  activate/deactivate the plugin.  That setting is
in the auditd::config::audisp::syslog::enable setting.  If syslog
is set to true, by default it will enable the syslog plugin in order
to be backwards compatable.  If you want to ensure the plugin is disabled,
set auditd::config::audisp::syslog::enable to false.
If this is set to false the plugin settings are not managed by puppet.

Default value: `simplib::lookup('simp_options::syslog', {'default_value' => false })`

##### <a name="-auditd--target_selinux_types"></a>`target_selinux_types`

Data type: `Optional[Array[Pattern['^.*_t$']]]`

A list of SELinux types to target, all others will be dropped

For systems that require all users and processes to be in a confined
namespace, you may find that only auditing unconfined types will be
sufficient since all other invalid system actions are already audited.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--uid_min"></a>`uid_min`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

The minimum UID for human users on the system. For built-in audit profiles
when `$ignore_system_services` is true, any audit events generated
by users below this number will be ignored, unless a corresponding rule
is inserted *before* the UID-limiting rule in the rules list.  When using
`auditd::rule`, you can create such a rule by setting the `absolute`
parameter to be 'first'.

Default value: `Integer(pick(fact('uid_min'), 1000))`

##### <a name="-auditd--verify_email"></a>`verify_email`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

auditd version 3 only

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--write_logs"></a>`write_logs`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether or not to write logs to disk.

* The `NOLOG` option on `log_format` has been deprecated in newer versions
  of `auditd` so this attempts to do "the right thing" when `log_format` is
  set to `NOLOG` for legacy support.

Default value: `$log_format ? { /^(?i:nolog)$/ => false, default => true`

##### <a name="-auditd--purge_auditd_rules"></a>`purge_auditd_rules`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether or not to purge existing auditd rules under /etc/audit/rules.d

Default value: `true`

### <a name="auditd--config"></a>`auditd::config`

NOTE: THIS IS A [PRIVATE](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib#assert_private) CLASS**

### <a name="auditd--config--audisp"></a>`auditd::config::audisp`

The following parameters are documented in audispd.conf(5).

These settings are deprecated and will be removed in the next major release
of auditd and are here for backwards compatability.

In auditd version 3  these settings were moved to auditd.conf
and audisp.conf was deprecated.  For this reason they are set in the init.pp
module with the other auditd.conf values also.  If you are trying to set these values
for auditd version 3 then you must set them there.
These settings are aliased in
hiera to auditd settings so you can move your settings
for these parameters to auditd::* now to ensure compatability with
future major releases but settings in hiera that are already exist will still work.
The following setting maps to the name variable in audisp.conf.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::config::audisp` class:

* [`q_depth`](#-auditd--config--audisp--q_depth)
* [`overflow_action`](#-auditd--config--audisp--overflow_action)
* [`priority_boost`](#-auditd--config--audisp--priority_boost)
* [`max_restarts`](#-auditd--config--audisp--max_restarts)
* [`name_format`](#-auditd--config--audisp--name_format)
* [`specific_name`](#-auditd--config--audisp--specific_name)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--q_depth"></a>`q_depth`

Data type: `Integer`

(deprecated)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--overflow_action"></a>`overflow_action`

Data type: `Auditd::OverflowAction`

(deprecated)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--priority_boost"></a>`priority_boost`

Data type: `Integer`

(deprecated)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--max_restarts"></a>`max_restarts`

Data type: `Integer`

(deprecated)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--name_format"></a>`name_format`

Data type: `Auditd::NameFormat`

(deprecated)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--specific_name"></a>`specific_name`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `$facts['networking']['fqdn']`

### <a name="auditd--config--audisp--syslog"></a>`auditd::config::audisp::syslog`

This capability is most useful for forwarding audit records to
remote servers as syslog messages, since these records are already
persisted locally in audit logs.  For most sites, however, using
this capability for all audit records can quickly overwhelm host
and/or network resources, especially if the messages are forwarded
to multiple remote syslog servers or (inadvertently) persisted
locally. Site-specific, rsyslog actions to implement filtering will
likely be required to reduce this message traffic.

If you are using simp_rsyslog, it, by default, sets up a
rsyslog rule to drop the audispd messages from being written locally
to prevent duplication of logging audit events on the local system.
See simp_rsyslog::local for more information.

It is also recommend you ensure any forwarded, audit messages are
encrypted using the stunnel module, due to the nature of the
information carried by these messages.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::config::audisp::syslog` class:

* [`rsyslog`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--rsyslog)
* [`drop_audit_logs`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--drop_audit_logs)
* [`enable`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--enable)
* [`priority`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--priority)
* [`facility`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--facility)
* [`syslog_path`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--syslog_path)
* [`type`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--type)
* [`pkg_name`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--pkg_name)
* [`package_ensure`](#-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--package_ensure)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--rsyslog"></a>`rsyslog`

Data type: `Boolean`

(deprecated)
If set, enable the SIMP `rsyslog` module and set up the appropriate rules
for the `auditd` services.

Default value: `simplib::lookup('simp_options::syslog', { 'default_value' => false })`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--drop_audit_logs"></a>`drop_audit_logs`

Data type: `Boolean`

(deprecated)
When set to false, auditd records will be forwarded to remote
servers and/or written to local syslog files, as directed by the
site rsyslog configuration.
This setting is not needed any more.  If you want to
disable/enable sending audit records to syslog, set
the 'enable' parameter in this module to false/true as appropriate.
It is left here for backwards compatability but will not
be in the next major release.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--enable"></a>`enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable or disable sending audit mesages to syslog.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--priority"></a>`priority`

Data type: `Auditd::LogPriority`

The syslog priority for all audit record messages.
This value is used in the /etc/audisp/plugins.d/syslog.conf file.

Default value: `'LOG_INFO'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--facility"></a>`facility`

Data type: `Auditd::LogFacility`

The syslog facility for all audit record messages. This value is
used in the /etc/audisp/plugins.d/syslog.conf file.  For the older
auditd versions used by CentOS6 and CentOS7, must be an empty string,
LOG_LOCAL0, LOG_LOCAL1, LOG_LOCAL2, LOG_LOCAL3, LOG_LOCAL4, LOG_LOCAL5,
LOG_LOCAL6, or LOG_LOCAL7. An empty string results in LOG_USER and
is the ONLY mechanism to specify that facility. No other facilities
are allowed.

Default value: `'LOG_LOCAL5'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--syslog_path"></a>`syslog_path`

Data type: `String`

The path to the syslog plugin executable.

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--type"></a>`type`

Data type: `String`

The type of auditd plugin.

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--pkg_name"></a>`pkg_name`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The name of the plugin package to install.  Only needed for
auditd version 3 and later.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audisp--syslog--package_ensure"></a>`package_ensure`

Data type: `String`

The default ensure parmeter for packages.

Default value: `simplib::lookup('simp_options::package_ensure', { 'default_value' => 'installed' })`

### <a name="auditd--config--audisp_service"></a>`auditd::config::audisp_service`

NOTE: THIS IS A [PRIVATE](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib#assert_private) CLASS**

Should only be called from audisp processing services.

### <a name="auditd--config--audit_profiles"></a>`auditd::config::audit_profiles`

NOTE: THIS IS A [PRIVATE](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib#assert_private) CLASS**

The configuration generated is contained in a set of files in
`/etc/audit/rules.d`, which `augenrules` parses for `auditd` in
natural sort order, to create a single `/etc/audit/auditd.rules`
file. The generated files are as follows:
- `00_head.rules`:  Contains `auditctl` general configuration to
  remove existing rules when the rules are reloaded, ignore rule
  load errors/failures, and set the buffer size, failure mode,
  and rate limiting
- `05_default_drop.rules`: Contains filtering rules for efficiency
  - Rules to drop prolific events of low-utility
  - Rules to restrict events based on `auid` constraints that would
    normally be applied to all rules
- `50_*base.rules`:
  - Nominal base rules for one or more built-in profiles.
  - One file will exist for each desired, built-in profile
  - Files are named so that the ordering of profiles listed
    in `$auditd::default_audit_profiles` is preserved
  - The corresponding class for each profile is
   `auditd::config::audit_profiles::<profile name>`
- `60_custom.rules`: Custom rules as defined by the ``auditd::custom_rules``
  parameter if appending
- `75.init.d_auditd.rules`:
   - A watch rule for `/etc/rc.d/init.d/auditd` permissions changes
   - A watch rule for permissions changes to the `auditd` log file
- `75.rotated_audit_logs.rules`
   - Watch rules for permissions changes to the rotated `auditd` log files
- `99_tail.rules`
  - `auditctl` immutable option, when `$auditd::immutable` is 'true'

### <a name="auditd--config--audit_profiles--built_in"></a>`auditd::config::audit_profiles::built_in`

An audit profile that allows the use of sample rulesets included with the
audit package to be used to configure a system.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::config::audit_profiles::built_in` class:

* [`rulesets`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--built_in--rulesets)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--built_in--rulesets"></a>`rulesets`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

The list of system sample rulesets to be included on the system. This list
can be found in the `auditd_sample_rulesets` fact.

Default value: `[]`

### <a name="auditd--config--audit_profiles--custom"></a>`auditd::config::audit_profiles::custom`

**NO SANITY CHECKING IS PERFORMED ON THE RESULTING RULES**

#### Examples

##### Passing an Array of Rules

```puppet

---
auditd::config::audit_profiles::custom::rules:
  - "-a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S creat -F exit=-EACCES -k unsuccessful_file_operations"
  - "-w /etc/passwd -p wa -k passwd_changes"
```

##### Passing an EPP Template

```puppet

---
auditd::config::audit_profiles::custom::template: "my_templates_module/auditd/my_audit_rules.epp"
```

##### Passing an ERB Template

```puppet

---
auditd::config::audit_profiles::custom::template: "my_templates_module/auditd/my_audit_rules.erb"
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::config::audit_profiles::custom` class:

* [`rules`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--custom--rules)
* [`template`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--custom--template)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--custom--rules"></a>`rules`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

An Array of rules that will be joined with a ``\n`` and inserted as the
**complete** audit rule set to be applied to the system.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--custom--template"></a>`template`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A template specification as you would pass to either the `epp` or `erb`
function

* Specifying both `rules` and `template` will result in an error

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp"></a>`auditd::config::audit_profiles::simp`

The defaults for this profile generate a set of audit rules that are
both usable on most systems and conformant with standard auditing
requirements. A few key usage/implementation details about this profile
should be noted:

  * This profile uses optimized audit rules.  Specifically, it
    * Combines system call rules as much as possible
    * By default, uses initial drop rules for the `auid` filters that
      would be otherwise applied to all system call rules
    * By default, uses an initial drop rule for cron events that are
      prolific, but whose audit records are of very limited utility
  * Although all security requirements allow optimization of audit rules,
    most of the automated security scanners do not yet understand audit
    rule optimizations. So, use of this profile may require explanation
    of these simple, yet effective, optimizations.
  * You may overload your system and/or log server, if you enable the
    highly-prolific, but limited-utility audit capabilities that have been
    intentionally disabled, here, despite being required by specific
    security standards.  'chmod' auditing for all non-service users
    is an example of such a capability.
  * In some cases, the more targeted set of rules for non-service users
    that have su'd to root may provide a viable subset of required auditing.
    This targeting filtering is enabled by `$audit_su_root_activity` and
    customized by `$root_audit_level`, `$basic_root_audit_syscalls`,
    `$aggressive_root_audit_syscalls, and `$insane_root_audit_syscalls`.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::config::audit_profiles::simp` class:

* [`root_audit_level`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--root_audit_level)
* [`audit_32bit_operations`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_32bit_operations)
* [`audit_32bit_operations_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_32bit_operations_tag)
* [`audit_auditd_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_auditd_cmds)
* [`audit_auditd_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_auditd_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_auditd_cmds_list`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_auditd_cmds_list)
* [`basic_root_audit_syscalls`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--basic_root_audit_syscalls)
* [`aggressive_root_audit_syscalls`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--aggressive_root_audit_syscalls)
* [`insane_root_audit_syscalls`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--insane_root_audit_syscalls)
* [`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations)
* [`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag)
* [`audit_chown`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chown)
* [`audit_chown_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chown_tag)
* [`audit_chmod`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chmod)
* [`audit_chmod_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chmod_tag)
* [`audit_attr`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_attr)
* [`audit_attr_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_attr_tag)
* [`audit_rename_remove`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rename_remove)
* [`audit_rename_remove_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rename_remove_tag)
* [`audit_su_root_activity`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_su_root_activity)
* [`audit_su_root_activity_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_su_root_activity_tag)
* [`audit_suid_sgid`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suid_sgid)
* [`audit_suid_sgid_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suid_sgid_tag)
* [`audit_kernel_modules`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_kernel_modules)
* [`audit_kernel_modules_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_kernel_modules_tag)
* [`audit_time`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_time)
* [`audit_time_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_time_tag)
* [`audit_locale`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_locale)
* [`audit_locale_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_locale_tag)
* [`audit_network_ipv4_accept`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_accept)
* [`audit_network_ipv4_accept_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_accept_tag)
* [`audit_network_ipv6_accept`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_accept)
* [`audit_network_ipv6_accept_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_accept_tag)
* [`audit_network_ipv4_connect`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_connect)
* [`audit_network_ipv4_connect_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_connect_tag)
* [`audit_network_ipv6_connect`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_connect)
* [`audit_network_ipv6_connect_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_connect_tag)
* [`audit_mount`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_mount)
* [`audit_mount_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_mount_tag)
* [`audit_umask`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_umask)
* [`audit_umask_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_umask_tag)
* [`audit_local_account`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_local_account)
* [`audit_local_account_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_local_account_tag)
* [`audit_selinux_policy`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_policy)
* [`audit_selinux_policy_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_policy_tag)
* [`audit_selinux_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_cmds)
* [`audit_selinux_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_login_files`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_login_files)
* [`audit_login_files_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_login_files_tag)
* [`audit_session_files`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_session_files)
* [`audit_session_files_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_session_files_tag)
* [`audit_sudoers`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_sudoers)
* [`audit_sudoers_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_sudoers_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_sudoers`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sudoers)
* [`audit_cfg_sudoers_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sudoers_tag)
* [`audit_grub`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_grub)
* [`audit_grub_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_grub_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_grub`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_grub)
* [`audit_cfg_grub_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_grub_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_sys`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sys)
* [`audit_cfg_sys_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sys_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_cron`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_cron)
* [`audit_cfg_cron_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_cron_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_shell`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_shell)
* [`audit_cfg_shell_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_shell_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_pam`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_pam)
* [`audit_cfg_pam_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_pam_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_security`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_security)
* [`audit_cfg_security_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_security_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_services`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_services)
* [`audit_cfg_services_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_services_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_xinetd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_xinetd)
* [`audit_cfg_xinetd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_xinetd_tag)
* [`audit_yum`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum)
* [`audit_yum_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_yum`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_yum)
* [`audit_cfg_yum_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_yum_tag)
* [`audit_yum_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum_cmd)
* [`audit_yum_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum_cmd_tag)
* [`audit_rpm_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rpm_cmd)
* [`audit_rpm_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rpm_cmd_tag)
* [`audit_ptrace`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ptrace)
* [`audit_ptrace_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ptrace_tag)
* [`audit_personality`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_personality)
* [`audit_personality_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_personality_tag)
* [`audit_passwd_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_passwd_cmds)
* [`audit_passwd_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_passwd_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_priv_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_priv_cmds)
* [`audit_priv_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_priv_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_postfix_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_postfix_cmds)
* [`audit_postfix_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_postfix_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd)
* [`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag)
* [`audit_suspicious_apps`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suspicious_apps)
* [`audit_suspicious_apps_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suspicious_apps_tag)
* [`audit_suspicious_apps_list`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suspicious_apps_list)
* [`audit_systemd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_systemd)
* [`audit_systemd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_systemd_tag)
* [`audit_crontab_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_crontab_cmd)
* [`audit_crontab_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_crontab_cmd_tag)
* [`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd)
* [`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--root_audit_level"></a>`root_audit_level`

Data type: `Auditd::RootAuditLevel`

What level of auditing should be used for su-root activity. Be aware that
setting this to anything besides 'basic' may overwhelm your system and/or
log server.
Options can be, 'basic', 'aggressive', 'insane'
 - Basic: Safe syscall rules, should not follow program execution outside
   of the base app
 - Aggressive: Adds syscall rules for execve, rmdir and variants of rename
   and unlink
 - Insane: Adds syscall rules for write, creat and variants of chown,
   fork, link and mkdir

Default value: `$::auditd::root_audit_level`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_32bit_operations"></a>`audit_32bit_operations`

Data type: `Boolean`

In general, any 32bit system calls on a 64bit systems should be seen as
suspicious.

Default value: `$facts['os']['hardware'] ? { 'x86_64' => true, default => false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_32bit_operations_tag"></a>`audit_32bit_operations_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_32bit_operations`

Default value: `'32bit-api'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_auditd_cmds"></a>`audit_auditd_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Audit calls to the auditd management CLI commands

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_auditd_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_auditd_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_auditd_cmds`

Default value: `'access-audit-trail'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_auditd_cmds_list"></a>`audit_auditd_cmds_list`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Commands to be audited if enabled by `audit_auditd_cmds`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--basic_root_audit_syscalls"></a>`basic_root_audit_syscalls`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Basic syscalls to audit for su-root activity

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--aggressive_root_audit_syscalls"></a>`aggressive_root_audit_syscalls`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Aggressive syscalls to audit for su-root activity

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--insane_root_audit_syscalls"></a>`insane_root_audit_syscalls`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Insane syscalls to audit for su-root activity

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations"></a>`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit unsuccessful file operations.  These are file operations
that fail with EACCES or EPERM error codes

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag"></a>`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify the unsuccessful file operations in an audit record

Default value: `'access'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chown"></a>`audit_chown`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `chown` operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `chown`, `fchown`, `fchownat`,
and `lchown` system calls.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chown_tag"></a>`audit_chown_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `chown` operations in an audit record.
You should change this to 'perm_mod' to match automated DISA STIG
compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'chown'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chmod"></a>`audit_chmod`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `chmod` operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `chmod`, `fchmod`, and `fchmodat`
system calls.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_chmod_tag"></a>`audit_chmod_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `chmod` operations in an audit record.
You should change this to 'perm_mod' to match automated DISA STIG
compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'chmod'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_attr"></a>`audit_attr`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `xattr` operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `setxattr`, `lsetxattr`, `fsetxattr`,
`removexattr`, `lremovexattr` and `fremovexattr` system calls.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_attr_tag"></a>`audit_attr_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `xattr` operations in an audit record.
You should change this to 'perm_mod' to match automated DISA STIG
compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'attr'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rename_remove"></a>`audit_rename_remove`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit rename/remove operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `rename`, `renameat`, `rmdir`,
`unlink`, and `unlinkat` system calls.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rename_remove_tag"></a>`audit_rename_remove_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify rename/remove operations in an audit record

Default value: `'delete'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_su_root_activity"></a>`audit_su_root_activity`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit other useful actions someone does when su'ing to root.
The list of system calls audited is controlled by `$root_audit_level`.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_su_root_activity_tag"></a>`audit_su_root_activity_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `su` operations in an audit record

Default value: `'su-root-activity'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suid_sgid"></a>`audit_suid_sgid`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `setuid`/`setgid` commands.
`setuid`/`setgid` command execution is audited by a single system call
rule.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suid_sgid_tag"></a>`audit_suid_sgid_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `setuid`/`setgid` command execution in an audit
record. You should change this to 'setuid/setgid' to match automated
DISA STIG compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'suid-exec'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_kernel_modules"></a>`audit_kernel_modules`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit kernel module operations

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_kernel_modules_tag"></a>`audit_kernel_modules_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify kernel module operations in an audit record.
You should change this to 'module-change' to match automated DISA STIG
compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'modules'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_time"></a>`audit_time`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit operations that affect system time

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_time_tag"></a>`audit_time_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify system time operations in an audit record

Default value: `'audit_time_rules'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_locale"></a>`audit_locale`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit operations that affect system locale

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_locale_tag"></a>`audit_locale_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify system locale operations in an audit record

Default value: `'audit_network_modifications'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_accept"></a>`audit_network_ipv4_accept`

Data type: `Boolean`

Audit **incoming** IPv4 connections

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_accept_tag"></a>`audit_network_ipv4_accept_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_network_ipv4_accept`

Default value: `'ipv4_in'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_accept"></a>`audit_network_ipv6_accept`

Data type: `Boolean`

Audit **incoming** IPv6 connections

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_accept_tag"></a>`audit_network_ipv6_accept_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_network_ipv6_accept`

Default value: `'ipv6_in'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_connect"></a>`audit_network_ipv4_connect`

Data type: `Boolean`

Audit **outgoing** IPv4 connections

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv4_connect_tag"></a>`audit_network_ipv4_connect_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_network_ipv4_connect`

Default value: `'ipv4_in'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_connect"></a>`audit_network_ipv6_connect`

Data type: `Boolean`

Audit **outgoing** IPv6 connections

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_network_ipv6_connect_tag"></a>`audit_network_ipv6_connect_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_network_ipv6_connect`

Default value: `'ipv6_in'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_mount"></a>`audit_mount`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit mount operations

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_mount_tag"></a>`audit_mount_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify mount operations in an audit record.
You should change this to 'privileged-mount' to match automated DISA STIG
compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'mount'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_umask"></a>`audit_umask`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit umask changes

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_umask_tag"></a>`audit_umask_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify umask changes in an audit record

Default value: `'umask'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_local_account"></a>`audit_local_account`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit local account changes

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_local_account_tag"></a>`audit_local_account_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify local account changes in an audit record.
You should change this to 'identity' to match the automated DISA STIG
compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'audit_account_changes'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_policy"></a>`audit_selinux_policy`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit selinux policy changes

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_policy_tag"></a>`audit_selinux_policy_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify selinux policy changes in an audit record

Default value: `'MAC-policy'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_cmds"></a>`audit_selinux_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `chcon`, `semanage`, `setsebool`, and `setfiles` commands

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_selinux_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_selinux_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify selinux command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-priv_change'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_login_files"></a>`audit_login_files`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to login files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_login_files_tag"></a>`audit_login_files_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify login file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'logins'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_session_files"></a>`audit_session_files`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to session files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_session_files_tag"></a>`audit_session_files_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify session file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'session'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_sudoers"></a>`audit_sudoers`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Deprecated by `$audit_cfg_sudoers`

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_sudoers_tag"></a>`audit_sudoers_tag`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Deprecated by `$audit_cfg_sudoers_tag`

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sudoers"></a>`audit_cfg_sudoers`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to sudoers configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sudoers_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_sudoers_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify sudoers configuration file changes in an audit
record.  You should change this to 'privileged-actions' to match the
automated DISA STIG compliance checks for RHEL7.

Default value: `'CFG_sys'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_grub"></a>`audit_grub`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Deprecated by `$audit_cfg_grub`

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_grub_tag"></a>`audit_grub_tag`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Deprecated by `$audit_cfg_grub_tag`

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_grub"></a>`audit_cfg_grub`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to grub configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_grub_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_grub_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify grub configuration file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'CFG_grub'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sys"></a>`audit_cfg_sys`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to key system configuration files not
otherwise audited

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_sys_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_sys_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify changes to key system configuration files
not otherwise audited

Default value: `'CFG_sys'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_cron"></a>`audit_cfg_cron`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to cron configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_cron_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_cron_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify cron configuration file changes in an audit
record

Default value: `'CFG_cron'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_shell"></a>`audit_cfg_shell`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to global shell configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_shell_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_shell_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify global shell configuration file changes in an
audit record

Default value: `'CFG_shell'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_pam"></a>`audit_cfg_pam`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to PAM configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_pam_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_pam_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify PAM configuration file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'CFG_pam'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_security"></a>`audit_cfg_security`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to `/etc/security`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_security_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_security_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `/etc/security` file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'CFG_security'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_services"></a>`audit_cfg_services`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to `/etc/services`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_services_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_services_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `/etc/services` file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'CFG_services'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_xinetd"></a>`audit_cfg_xinetd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to xinetd configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_xinetd_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_xinetd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify xinetd configuration file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'CFG_xinetd'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum"></a>`audit_yum`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Deprecated by `$audit_cfg_yum`

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum_tag"></a>`audit_yum_tag`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Deprecated by `$audit_cfg_yum_tag`

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_yum"></a>`audit_cfg_yum`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to yum configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_cfg_yum_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_yum_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify yum configuration file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'yum-config'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum_cmd"></a>`audit_yum_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `yum` command execution

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_yum_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_yum_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `yum` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'package_changes'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rpm_cmd"></a>`audit_rpm_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `rpm` command execution

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_rpm_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_rpm_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `rpm` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'package_changes'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ptrace"></a>`audit_ptrace`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `ptrace` system calls

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ptrace_tag"></a>`audit_ptrace_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `ptrace` system calls in an audit record

Default value: `'paranoid'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_personality"></a>`audit_personality`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `personality` system calls

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_personality_tag"></a>`audit_personality_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `personality` system calls in an audit record

Default value: `'paranoid'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_passwd_cmds"></a>`audit_passwd_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of password commands, i.e., `passwd`,
`unix_chkpwd`, `gpasswd`, `chage`, `userhelper`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_passwd_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_passwd_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify password command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-passwd'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_priv_cmds"></a>`audit_priv_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of privilege-related commands, i.e.,
`su`, `sudo`, `newgrp`, `chsh`, and `sudoedit`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_priv_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_priv_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify privilege-related command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-priv_change'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_postfix_cmds"></a>`audit_postfix_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of postfix-related commands, i.e.
`postdrop` and `postqueue`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_postfix_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_postfix_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify postfix-related command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-postfix'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd"></a>`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of the `ssh-keysign` command

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `ssh-keysign` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-ssh'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suspicious_apps"></a>`audit_suspicious_apps`

Data type: `Boolean`

Audit various applications that generally represent suspicious host activity

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suspicious_apps_tag"></a>`audit_suspicious_apps_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_suspicious_apps`

Default value: `'suspicious_apps'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_suspicious_apps_list"></a>`audit_suspicious_apps_list`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

List of applications to be audited when `audit_suspicious_apps` is enabled

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_systemd"></a>`audit_systemd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Audit systemd components

* Only takes effect on systems with systemd present

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_systemd_tag"></a>`audit_systemd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

Tag to be added to entries triggered by `audit_systemd`

Default value: `'systemd'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_crontab_cmd"></a>`audit_crontab_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of the `crontab` command

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_crontab_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_crontab_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `crontab` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-cron'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd"></a>`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of the `pam_timestamp_check` command

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--simp--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `pam_timestamp_check` command execution in an audit
record

Default value: `'privileged-pam'`

### <a name="auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig"></a>`auditd::config::audit_profiles::stig`

The defaults for this profile generate a set of audit rules that conform to
automated DISA STIG compliance checks for RHEL7. Satisfying the checks,
instead of the intent of the security requirements, necessitates unoptimized
rules. These unoptimized rules, in turn, negatively impact system performance.

WARNING: **These rules may overload your system and/or log server!**

When auditd performance is an issue, you may wish to

* Disable capabilities that, despite being required by DISA STIG for RHEL7,
  produce large amounts audit records of limited utility. `chmod` auditing
  for all non-service users falls in this category.

* Use the optimized 'auditd::config::audit_profiles::simp' profile, instead.
  That profile is more comprehensive and performant.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::config::audit_profiles::stig` class:

* [`uid_min`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--uid_min)
* [`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations)
* [`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag)
* [`audit_chown`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chown)
* [`audit_chown_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chown_tag)
* [`audit_chmod`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chmod)
* [`audit_chmod_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chmod_tag)
* [`audit_attr`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_attr)
* [`audit_attr_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_attr_tag)
* [`audit_rename_remove`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_rename_remove)
* [`audit_rename_remove_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_rename_remove_tag)
* [`audit_suid_sgid`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_suid_sgid)
* [`default_suid_sgid_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--default_suid_sgid_cmds)
* [`suid_sgid_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--suid_sgid_cmds)
* [`audit_suid_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_suid_tag)
* [`audit_sgid_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_sgid_tag)
* [`audit_suid_sgid_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_suid_sgid_tag)
* [`audit_kernel_modules`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_kernel_modules)
* [`audit_kernel_modules_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_kernel_modules_tag)
* [`audit_mount`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_mount)
* [`audit_mount_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_mount_tag)
* [`audit_local_account`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_local_account)
* [`audit_local_account_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_local_account_tag)
* [`audit_selinux_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_selinux_cmds)
* [`audit_selinux_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_selinux_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_login_files`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_login_files)
* [`audit_login_files_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_login_files_tag)
* [`audit_cfg_sudoers`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_cfg_sudoers)
* [`audit_cfg_sudoers_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_cfg_sudoers_tag)
* [`audit_passwd_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_passwd_cmds)
* [`audit_passwd_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_passwd_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_priv_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_priv_cmds)
* [`audit_priv_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_priv_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_postfix_cmds`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_postfix_cmds)
* [`audit_postfix_cmds_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_postfix_cmds_tag)
* [`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd)
* [`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag)
* [`audit_crontab_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_crontab_cmd)
* [`audit_crontab_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_crontab_cmd_tag)
* [`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd)
* [`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag`](#-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--uid_min"></a>`uid_min`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

The minimum UID for human users on the system. Any audit events generated
by users below this number will be ignored unless a corresponding rule
is inserted *before* the UID-limiting rule in the rules list.  When using
`auditd::rule`, you can create such a rule by setting the `absolute`
parameter to be 'first'.

Default value: `$::auditd::uid_min`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations"></a>`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit unsuccessful file operations.  These are file operations
that fail with EACCES or EPERM error codes

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag"></a>`audit_unsuccessful_file_operations_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify the unsuccessful file operations in an audit record

Default value: `'access'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chown"></a>`audit_chown`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `chown` operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `chown`, `fchown`, `fchownat`,
and `lchown` system calls.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chown_tag"></a>`audit_chown_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `chown` operations in an audit record

Default value: `'perm_mod'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chmod"></a>`audit_chmod`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `chmod` operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `chmod`, `fchmod`, and `fchmodat`
system calls.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_chmod_tag"></a>`audit_chmod_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `chmod` operations in an audit record

Default value: `'perm_mod'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_attr"></a>`audit_attr`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `xattr` operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `setxattr`, `lsetxattr`, `fsetxattr`,
`removexattr`, `lremovexattr` and `fremovexattr` system calls.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_attr_tag"></a>`audit_attr_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `xattr` operations in an audit record

Default value: `'perm_mod'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_rename_remove"></a>`audit_rename_remove`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit rename/remove operations for all non-service users.
These operations are provided by `rename`, `renameat`, `rmdir`,
`unlink`, and `unlinkat` system calls.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_rename_remove_tag"></a>`audit_rename_remove_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify rename/remove operations in an audit record

Default value: `'delete'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_suid_sgid"></a>`audit_suid_sgid`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `setuid`/`setgid` commands

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--default_suid_sgid_cmds"></a>`default_suid_sgid_cmds`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

The default list of `setuid`/`setgid` commands to be audited.
* Should not include commands audited by other rules.

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--suid_sgid_cmds"></a>`suid_sgid_cmds`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Additional list of `setuid`/`setgid` commands to be audited.
You can use this to augment the `$default_suid_sgid_cmds`
per your site's needs.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_suid_tag"></a>`audit_suid_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `setuid` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'setuid'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_sgid_tag"></a>`audit_sgid_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `setgid` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'setgid'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_suid_sgid_tag"></a>`audit_suid_sgid_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `setuid`/`setgid` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `"${audit_suid_tag}/${audit_sgid_tag}"`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_kernel_modules"></a>`audit_kernel_modules`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit kernel module operations

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_kernel_modules_tag"></a>`audit_kernel_modules_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify kernel module operations in an audit record

Default value: `'module-change'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_mount"></a>`audit_mount`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit mount operations

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_mount_tag"></a>`audit_mount_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify mount operations in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-mount'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_local_account"></a>`audit_local_account`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit local account changes

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_local_account_tag"></a>`audit_local_account_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify local account changes in an audit record

Default value: `'identity'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_selinux_cmds"></a>`audit_selinux_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit `chcon`, `semanage`, `setsebool`, and `setfiles` commands

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_selinux_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_selinux_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify selinux command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-priv_change'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_login_files"></a>`audit_login_files`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to login files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_login_files_tag"></a>`audit_login_files_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify login file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'logins'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_cfg_sudoers"></a>`audit_cfg_sudoers`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit changes to sudoers configuration files

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_cfg_sudoers_tag"></a>`audit_cfg_sudoers_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify sudoers configuration file changes in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-actions'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_passwd_cmds"></a>`audit_passwd_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of password commands, i.e., `passwd`,
`unix_chkpwd`, `gpasswd`, `chage`, `userhelper`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_passwd_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_passwd_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify password command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-passwd'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_priv_cmds"></a>`audit_priv_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of privilege-related commands, i.e.,
`su`, `sudo`, `newgrp`, `chsh`, and `sudoedit`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_priv_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_priv_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify privilege-related command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-priv_change'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_postfix_cmds"></a>`audit_postfix_cmds`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of postfix-related commands, i.e.
`postdrop` and `postqueue`

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_postfix_cmds_tag"></a>`audit_postfix_cmds_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify postfix-related command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-postfix'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd"></a>`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of the `ssh-keysign` command

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_ssh_keysign_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `ssh-keysign` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-ssh'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_crontab_cmd"></a>`audit_crontab_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of the `crontab` command

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_crontab_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_crontab_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `crontab` command execution in an audit record

Default value: `'privileged-cron'`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd"></a>`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to audit the execution of the `pam_timestamp_check` command

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-auditd--config--audit_profiles--stig--audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag"></a>`audit_pam_timestamp_check_cmd_tag`

Data type: `String[1]`

The tag to identify `pam_timestamp_check` command execution in an audit
record

Default value: `'privileged-pam'`

### <a name="auditd--config--grub"></a>`auditd::config::grub`

Enables/disables auditing at boot time.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::config::grub` class:

* [`enable`](#-auditd--config--grub--enable)

##### <a name="-auditd--config--grub--enable"></a>`enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable auditing in the kernel at boot time.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="auditd--config--logging"></a>`auditd::config::logging`

NOTE: THIS IS A [PRIVATE](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib#assert_private) CLASS**

### <a name="auditd--install"></a>`auditd::install`

NOTE: THIS IS A [PRIVATE](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib#assert_private) CLASS**

### <a name="auditd--service"></a>`auditd::service`

NOTE: THIS IS A [PRIVATE](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib#assert_private) CLASS**

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::service` class:

* [`ensure`](#-auditd--service--ensure)
* [`enable`](#-auditd--service--enable)
* [`bypass_kernel_check`](#-auditd--service--bypass_kernel_check)
* [`warn_if_reboot_required`](#-auditd--service--warn_if_reboot_required)

##### <a name="-auditd--service--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Variant[String[1],Boolean]`

``ensure`` state from the service resource

Default value: `pick(getvar('auditd::enable'), 'running')`

##### <a name="-auditd--service--enable"></a>`enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

``enable`` state from the service resource

Default value: `pick(getvar('auditd::enable'), true)`

##### <a name="-auditd--service--bypass_kernel_check"></a>`bypass_kernel_check`

Data type: `Boolean`

Do not check to see if the kernel is enforcing auditing before trying to
manage the service.

* This may be required if auditing is not being actively managed in the
  kernel and someone has stopped the auditd service by hand.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--service--warn_if_reboot_required"></a>`warn_if_reboot_required`

Data type: `Boolean`

Add a ``reboot_notify`` warning if the system requires a reboot before the
service can be managed.

Default value: `true`

## Defined types

### <a name="auditd--rule"></a>`auditd::rule`

All rules must be uniquely named.  See ``auditctl(8)`` for more information
on how to write the content for these rules.

 * Overrides all other ordering parameters

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `auditd::rule` defined type:

* [`name`](#-auditd--rule--name)
* [`content`](#-auditd--rule--content)
* [`order`](#-auditd--rule--order)
* [`first`](#-auditd--rule--first)
* [`absolute`](#-auditd--rule--absolute)
* [`prepend`](#-auditd--rule--prepend)

##### <a name="-auditd--rule--name"></a>`name`

A unique identifier for the audit rules.

##### <a name="-auditd--rule--content"></a>`content`

Data type: `Variant[Array[String[1]],String[1]]`

The content of the rules that should be added.

* Arrays will be joined with a newline

##### <a name="-auditd--rule--order"></a>`order`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

An alphanumeric (file system ordering) order string

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-auditd--rule--first"></a>`first`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to 'true' if you want to prepend your custom rules (numeric 10)

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--rule--absolute"></a>`absolute`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to ``true`` if you want the added rules to be absolutely first or
last depending on the setting of ``$first``.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-auditd--rule--prepend"></a>`prepend`

Data type: `Boolean`

Prepend this rule to all other rules (numeric 00).

Default value: `false`

## Functions

### <a name="auditd--calculate_space_left"></a>`auditd::calculate_space_left`

Type: Puppet Language

Calculates the correct default value for 'space_left' based on the value of 'admin_space_left'.

#### `auditd::calculate_space_left(Variant[Integer[0],Pattern['^\d+%$']] $admin_space_left)`

The auditd::calculate_space_left function.

Returns: `Variant[Integer[0],Pattern['^\d+%$']]`

##### `admin_space_left`

Data type: `Variant[Integer[0],Pattern['^\d+%$']]`



### <a name="auditd--get_array_index"></a>`auditd::get_array_index`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Terminates catalog compilation if the element is not found within
the array.

#### `auditd::get_array_index(String $element, Array $array, Optional[Integer] $min_digits)`

Terminates catalog compilation if the element is not found within
the array.

Returns: `String` Index of `element` in `array` represented as
a string

Raises:

* `RuntimeError` if `element` is not found within `array`

##### `element`

Data type: `String`

The element

##### `array`

Data type: `Array`

The array

##### `min_digits`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The minimum number of digits the index should be. 
It will be '0'-padded to meet this number.

### <a name="auditd--validate_init_params"></a>`auditd::validate_init_params`

Type: Puppet Language

Moved into a function to reduce class clutter.

Fails on discovered errors.

#### `auditd::validate_init_params()`

Moved into a function to reduce class clutter.

Fails on discovered errors.

Returns: `None`

## Data types

### <a name="Auditd--AuditProfile"></a>`Auditd::AuditProfile`

Matches the types of auditd profiles allowed

Alias of `Enum['built_in', 'simp', 'stig', 'custom']`

### <a name="Auditd--DiskErrorAction"></a>`Auditd::DiskErrorAction`

Matches disk error actions in auditd.conf

Alias of `Enum['IGNORE', 'SYSLOG', 'EXEC', 'SUSPEND', 'SINGLE', 'HALT', 'ignore', 'syslog', 'exec', 'suspend', 'single', 'halt']`

### <a name="Auditd--DiskFullAction"></a>`Auditd::DiskFullAction`

Matches actions to take when disk is full (see auditd.conf)

Alias of `Enum['IGNORE', 'SYSLOG', 'ROTATE', 'EXEC', 'SUSPEND', 'SINGLE', 'HALT', 'ignore', 'syslog', 'rotate', 'exec', 'suspend', 'single', 'halt']`

### <a name="Auditd--Flush"></a>`Auditd::Flush`

Matches actions flush in auditd.conf

Alias of `Enum['NONE', 'INCREMENTAL', 'DATA', 'SYNC', 'INCREMENTAL_ASYNC', 'none', 'incremental', 'data', 'sync', 'incremental_async']`

### <a name="Auditd--LogFacility"></a>`Auditd::LogFacility`

Matches log facility that can be used in syslog.conf plugin

Alias of `Enum['', 'LOG_LOCAL0', 'LOG_LOCAL1', 'LOG_LOCAL2', 'LOG_LOCAL3', 'LOG_LOCAL4', 'LOG_LOCAL5', 'LOG_LOCAL6', 'LOG_LOCAL7']`

### <a name="Auditd--LogFormat"></a>`Auditd::LogFormat`

Matches log formats that can be used in auditd.conf

Alias of `Enum['RAW', 'ENRICHED', 'NOLOG', 'raw', 'enriched', 'nolog']`

### <a name="Auditd--LogPriority"></a>`Auditd::LogPriority`

Matches log priorities that can be used in syslog.conf plugin

Alias of `Enum['LOG_DEBUG', 'LOG_INFO', 'LOG_NOTICE', 'LOG_WARNING', 'LOG_ERR', 'LOG_CRIT', 'LOG_ALERT', 'LOG_EMERG', 'LOG_AUTHPRIV']`

### <a name="Auditd--MaxLogFileAction"></a>`Auditd::MaxLogFileAction`

Matches available matches for maxlogfileaction in auditd.conf

Alias of `Enum['IGNORE', 'SYSLOG', 'SUSPEND', 'ROTATE', 'KEEP_LOGS', 'ignore', 'syslog', 'suspend', 'rotate', 'keep_logs']`

### <a name="Auditd--NameFormat"></a>`Auditd::NameFormat`

Matche s available name formats in audotd.conf

Alias of `Enum['NONE', 'HOSTNAME', 'FQD', 'NUMERIC', 'USER', 'none', 'hostname', 'fqd', 'numeric', 'user']`

### <a name="Auditd--OverflowAction"></a>`Auditd::OverflowAction`

Matches overflow_action settings in auditd.conf or audisp.conf

Alias of `Enum['IGNORE', 'SYSLOG', 'SUSPEND', 'SINGLE', 'HALT', 'ignore', 'syslog', 'suspend', 'single', 'halt']`

### <a name="Auditd--RootAuditLevel"></a>`Auditd::RootAuditLevel`

Matches root audit level settings in auditd.conf

Alias of `Enum['basic', 'aggressive', 'insane']`

### <a name="Auditd--SpaceLeftAction"></a>`Auditd::SpaceLeftAction`

Matches spaceleftaction for auditd.conf

Alias of `Enum['IGNORE', 'SYSLOG', 'ROTATE', 'EMAIL', 'EXEC', 'SUSPEND', 'SINGLE', 'HALT', 'ignore', 'syslog', 'rotate', 'email', 'exec', 'suspend', 'single', 'halt']`

